# Forecast of NIVIDIA stock price from a time series analysis using SARIMA

The first thing to do was to look at a time plot of daily prices of NVIDIA's stock at the market close, the jpg file entitled, "nividiastock5yrs." I noted that there was no obvious seasonality occuring, but there was an obvious upward trend and increase in variation with time. Next, I looked at the ACF and PACF of the stock prices, "acfandpacfuntransformed." The ACF showed no seasonality. Since the variation is increasing, the next thing to do is a transformation to stabalize the variance so that our dataset is stationary. I took the log-transform of the data to handle the change in variance and a non-seasonal differencing to handle the upward trend, making d = 1, in the SARIMA model. Since there was no seasonality, s = 0. The three plots can be seen together in "pricestransformed." I then looked at the ACF and PACF of the transformed dataset, "acfandpacftransformed." The ACF showed no significant autocorrelation in any of the lags apart from 1 anomoly indicating that the order of the MA terms, q = 0. The PACF which typically is informative of the order of the AR terms, showed similar results, i.e. p = 0. The SARIMA model was therefore suspected to be SARIMA(0,1,0,0,0,0,0) or ARIMA(0,1,0), or simply a random walk. I checked several different models changing p and q, but the model with the lowest AIC was the random walk model corresponding to an AIC = -5543.502,  SSE = 0.8930803, and  p-VALUE = 0.1718207. I then took a residual analysis of the random walk model, "residualanalysis." The standardized residuals looks white, and there were no significant sample autocorrelations. The Q-Q plot showed a middle linear part, but with systematic departures at the tails. Looking at the p-values from a Ljung-Box statistic, I see that there was no significant autocorrelations in the residuals.

If X_t = stock price, what I modeled was Y_t = log(X_t) which was fitted to a SARIMA(0,1,0,0,0,0,0) model. The equation for the model is (1 - B)Y_t = Z_t, where B is the backward shift operator and Z_t is a Weiner process with zero mean and 0.0007065 variance.

The forecast over the next year is shown in "forecastyear," and "forecastconfidence." The area in dark gray represents the forecast with an 80% confidence interval and the lighter gray the foreast with a 90% confidence interval.
